{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Semibold;\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f5\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-RegularItalic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red109\green109\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat27\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat41\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat58\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat75\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat86\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat95\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid701\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid8}
{\list\listtemplateid9\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid801\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid9}
{\list\listtemplateid10\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat95\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid901\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid10}
{\list\listtemplateid11\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat114\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1001\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid11}
{\list\listtemplateid12\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat121\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1101\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid12}
{\list\listtemplateid13\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat129\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1201\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid13}
{\list\listtemplateid14\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat146\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1301\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid14}
{\list\listtemplateid15\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat156\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1401\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid15}
{\list\listtemplateid16\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat164\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1501\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid16}
{\list\listtemplateid17\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat177\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1601\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid17}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid9\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid10\listoverridecount0\ls10}{\listoverride\listid11\listoverridecount0\ls11}{\listoverride\listid12\listoverridecount0\ls12}{\listoverride\listid13\listoverridecount0\ls13}{\listoverride\listid14\listoverridecount0\ls14}{\listoverride\listid15\listoverridecount0\ls15}{\listoverride\listid16\listoverridecount0\ls16}{\listoverride\listid17\listoverridecount0\ls17}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Below is a 
\f1\b comprehensive list of over 150 statistics concepts
\f0\b0  that are commonly required for 
\f1\b Data Science
\f0\b0 , logically grouped to facilitate study and revision. This covers 
\f1\b foundational, advanced, applied, and machine learning-related statistics
\f0\b0 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 Descriptive Statistics (Basics)\
\
* 
\fs24 Population:
\f0\b0  The entire set of individuals or objects of interest.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \
{\listtext	2	}* 
\f1\b Sample:
\f0\b0  A subset of the population from which data is collected.\
\
{\listtext	4	}* 
\f1\b Variable:
\f0\b0  A characteristic or attribute that can change or vary.\
\
{\listtext	6	}* 
\f1\b Quantitative Variables:
\f0\b0  Measurements that can be quantified and expressed numerically.\
\
{\listtext	8	}* 
\f1\b Qualitative (Categorical) Variables:
\f0\b0  Measurements that can be categorised and classified into distinct groups.\
\
{\listtext	10	}* 
\f1\b Discrete Variables:
\f0\b0  Measurements that can only take distinct, separate values.\
\
{\listtext	12	}* 
\f1\b Continuous Variables:
\f0\b0  Measurements that can take any value within a range.\
\
{\listtext	14	}* 
\f1\b Mean (Arithmetic Mean):
\f0\b0  The average of a dataset.\
\
{\listtext	16	}* 
\f1\b Median:
\f0\b0  The middle value of a dataset arranged in ascending or descending order.\
\
{\listtext	18	}* 
\f1\b Mode:
\f0\b0  The most frequently occurring value in a dataset.\
\
{\listtext	20	}* 
\f1\b Weighted Mean:
\f0\b0  A weighted average that considers the importance of each data point.\
\
{\listtext	22	}* 
\f1\b Trimmed Mean:
\f0\b0  A mean \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 calculated by removing extreme values from a dataset.\
\
{\listtext	24	}* 
\f1\b \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Range:
\f0\b0  The difference between the highest and lowest values in a dataset.\
\
{\listtext	26	}* 
\f1\b Interquartile Range (IQR):
\f0\b0  The range between the first quartile and the third quartile.\
\
{\listtext	28	}* 
\f1\b Variance:
\f0\b0  A measure of the spread of a dataset.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cf0 {\listtext	29	}15. Standard Deviation:
\f0\b0  A measure of the standard deviation \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 of a dataset.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b {\listtext	30	}16. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Mean Absolute Deviation:
\f0\b0  The average of the absolute differences between each data point and the mean.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b {\listtext	31	}17. Percentiles:
\f0\b0  Values that represent specific proportions of a dataset.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b {\listtext	32	}18. Quartiles:
\f0\b0  Values that divide a dataset into four equal parts.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b {\listtext	33	}19. Deciles:
\f0\b0  Values that divide a dataset into ten equal parts.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b {\listtext	34	}20. Five-Number Summary:
\f0\b0  A summary \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 of a dataset that includes the minimum, first quartile, median, third quartile, and maximum values.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b {\listtext	35	}21. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Frequency Distribution:
\f0\b0  A graphical representation of the distribution \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 of data points.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b {\listtext	36	}22. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Relative Frequency:
\f0\b0  The proportion of data points that fall within a specific range.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b {\listtext	37	}23. Cumulative Frequency:
\f0\b0  The sum of the frequencies of data points that are less than or equal to a certain value.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b {\listtext	38	}24. Skewness:
\f0\b0  A measure of the asymmetry of a dataset.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b {\listtext	39	}25. Kurtosis:
\f0\b0  A measure of the kurtosis of a dataset.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 2. Data Visualisation & Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)\
\
* 
\fs24 Histogram:
\f0\b0  A graphical representation of the distribution of data points.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	27	}* 
\f1\b Bar Chart:
\f0\b0  A graphical representation of the distribution of data points with bars.\
{\listtext	28	}* 
\f1\b Line Plot:
\f0\b0  A graphical representation of the distribution of data points with a line.\
{\listtext	29	}* 
\f1\b Scatter Plot:
\f0\b0  A graphical representation of the relationship between two variables.\
{\listtext	30	}* 
\f1\b Box Plot:
\f0\b0  A graphical representation of the distribution of data points with a box and whiskers.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\b \cf0 {\listtext	31	}31. Violin Plot:
\f0\b0  A graphical representation of the distribution of data points with a violin shape.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\b {\listtext	32	}32. Density Plot:
\f0\b0  A graphical representation of the distribution of data points with a density function.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\b {\listtext	33	}33. Pair Plot:
\f0\b0  A graphical representation of the relationship between two variables with a pair of points.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\b {\listtext	34	}34. Heatmap:
\f0\b0  A graphical representation of data with colour intensity to represent values.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\b {\listtext	35	}35. QQ Plot (Quantile-Quantile Plot):
\f0\b0  A graphical representation of the distribution of data points with a line connecting the quantiles.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\b {\listtext	36	}36. Outliers:
\f0\b0  Data points that deviate significantly from the rest of the dataset.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\b {\listtext	37	}37. Anomaly Detection (Statistical):
\f0\b0  The process of identifying and identifying data points that are considered anomalous.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\b {\listtext	38	}38. Data Transformation:
\f0\b0  The process of transforming data to achieve specific goals.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\b {\listtext	39	}39. Log Transformation:
\f0\b0  A statistical transformation 
\f1\b\fs36 that involves taking the logarithm
\f0\b0\fs24  of a dataset.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
4. Probability Distributions (Very Important)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	58	}58. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Bernoulli Distribution:
\f0\b0  A probability distribution that describes the probability of a single success in a series of independent trials.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	59	}59. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Binomial Distribution:
\f0\b0  A probability distribution that describes the probability of a sequence of independent trials, each with two possible outcomes: success or failure.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	60	}60. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Geometric Distribution:
\f0\b0  A probability distribution that describes the probability of a sequence of independent trials, each with two possible outcomes: success or failure. The probability of success increases with each trial until it reaches a certain value.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	61	}61. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Negative Binomial Distribution:
\f0\b0  A probability distribution that describes the probability of a sequence of independent trials, each with two possible outcomes: success or failure. The probability of success decreases with each trial until it reaches a certain value.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	62	}62. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Poisson Distribution:
\f0\b0  A probability distribution that describes the probability of a sequence of independent trials, each with two possible outcomes: success or failure. The probability of success is constant for each trial.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	63	}63. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Uniform Distribution:
\f0\b0  A probability distribution that describes the probability of a sequence of independent trials, each with two possible outcomes: success or failure. The probability of success is equal for each trial.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	64	}64. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Normal (Gaussian) Distribution:
\f0\b0  A probability distribution that describes the distribution of continuous data. It is characterised by a bell-shaped curve and a mean and standard deviation.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	65	}65. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Standard Normal Distribution:
\f0\b0  A special case of the normal distribution, where the mean is 0 and the standard deviation is 1.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	66	}66. Log-Normal Distribution:
\f0\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 A probability distribution that describes the distribution of continuous data whose logarithm is normally distributed.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	67	}67. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Exponential Distribution:
\f0\b0  A probability distribution that describes the distribution of continuous data whose probability density function is proportional to the product of the rate parameter and the exponential function.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	68	}68. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Gamma Distribution:
\f0\b0  A probability distribution that describes the distribution of continuous data whose probability density function is proportional to the product of the shape parameter and the inverse of the gamma function raised to the power of the rate parameter.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	69	}69. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Beta Distribution:
\f0\b0  A probability distribution that describes the distribution of continuous data whose probability density function is proportional to the product of the shape parameter and the inverse of the gamma function raised to the power of the rate parameter.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	70	}70. Chi-Square Distribution:
\f0\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 A probability distribution that describes the distribution of continuous data whose probability density function is proportional to the inverse of the chi-square function.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	71	}71. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Student\'92s t-Distribution:
\f0\b0  A probability distribution that describes the distribution of continuous data whose probability density function is proportional to the inverse of the t-distribution.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	72	}72. F-Distribution:
\f0\b0  A probability distribution that describes the distribution of continuous data whose probability density function is proportional to the inverse of the \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
F-distribution.\
{\listtext	73	}**\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 73. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Multinomial Distribution\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 5. Sampling and Sampling Distributions\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	75	}75. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Sampling:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	76	}- Definition: The process of selecting a representative sample from a larger population.\
{\listtext	77	}- Importance: Essential for data analysis and decision-making.\
\
\ls5\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	79	}76. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Sampling Bias:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	80	}- Definition: The systematic deviation from the intended outcome due to factors influencing the sampling process.\
{\listtext	81	}- Types: Selection bias, non-response bias, and measurement bias.\
\
\ls5\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	83	}77. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Random Sampling:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	84	}- Definition: The process of selecting a sample randomly from the population.\
{\listtext	85	}- Advantages: Ensures unbiased representation and reliability.\
\
\ls5\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	87	}78. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Stratified Sampling:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	88	}- Definition: The process of dividing the population into subgroups based on specific characteristics and then selecting a representative sample from each subgroup.\
{\listtext	89	}- Advantages: Reduces bias and improves representativeness.\
\
\ls5\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	91	}79. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cluster Sampling:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	92	}- Definition: The process of dividing the population into clusters and then selecting a representative sample from each cluster.\
{\listtext	93	}- Advantages: Ensures uniform sampling and reduces variability.\
\
\ls5\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	95	}80. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Systematic Sampling:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	96	}- Definition: The process of selecting a sample at regular intervals from the population.\
{\listtext	97	}- Advantages: Provides a systematic and representative sample.\
\
\ls5\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	99	}81. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Sampling Distribution:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	100	}- Definition: The distribution of sample statistics over repeated sampling.\
{\listtext	101	}- Key Concepts: Central Limit Theorem (CLT), Standard Error, Law of Large Numbers, and Finite Population Correction.\
\
\ls5\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	103	}82. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Central Limit Theorem (CLT):
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	104	}- Definition: A fundamental theorem in probability theory that describes the distribution of sample statistics as they become larger.\
{\listtext	105	}- Implications: Ensures the reliability of statistical inference.\
\
\ls5\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	107	}83. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Standard Error:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	108	}- Definition: The standard deviation of a sample statistic.\
{\listtext	109	}- Importance: Measures the variability of sample statistics.\
\
\ls5\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	111	}84. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Law of Large Numbers:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	112	}- Definition: A fundamental theorem in probability theory that states that the average of a sequence of independent random variables converges to the expected value of the underlying distribution.\
{\listtext	113	}- Implications: Provides a basis for statistical inference.\
\
\ls5\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	115	}85. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Finite Population Correction:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	116	}- Definition: A technique used to adjust the standard error of a sample statistic when the sample size is small compared to the population size.\
{\listtext	117	}- Importance: Ensures the accuracy of statistical inference in small samples.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 6. Statistical Inference\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	86	}86. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Statistical Inference:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	87	}- Definition: The process of drawing conclusions and making decisions based on data analysis.\
{\listtext	88	}- Importance: Essential for data-driven decision-making.\
\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	90	}87. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Point Estimation:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	91	}- Definition: A method of estimating a population parameter using a single statistic.\
{\listtext	92	}- Examples: Sample mean, sample median, and sample mode.\
\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	94	}88. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Interval Estimation:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	95	}- Definition: A method of estimating a population parameter using a range of statistics.\
{\listtext	96	}- Examples: Confidence intervals and credible intervals.\
\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	98	}89. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Confidence Interval:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	99	}- Definition: A range of values that is likely to contain the true population parameter with a specified level of confidence.\
{\listtext	100	}- Importance: Provides a reliable estimate of the population parameter.\
\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	102	}90. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Margin of Error:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	103	}- Definition: The standard deviation of a confidence interval.\
{\listtext	104	}- Importance: Measures the uncertainty associated with a confidence interval.\
\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	106	}91. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Bias of Estimator:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	107	}- Definition: The systematic deviation from the intended outcome due to the characteristics of the estimator
\f1\b\fs36 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0
\cf0 - Examples: Bias in sample mean, bias in sample median
\f2\b0\fs26 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 , and bias in sample mode.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0\cf0 \
\ls7\ilvl0
\f3\b {\listtext	96	}92. Consistency:
\f2\b0 \
{\listtext	97	}- Definition: The property of an estimator that ensures that its output converges to the correct value as the sample size increases.\
{\listtext	98	}- Importance: Ensures the reliability of statistical inference.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs24 \cf0 \

\f3\b\fs26 93. Efficiency of Estimator:\
- Definition
\f2\b0 : The ratio of the variance of an estimator to the variance of a competing estimator.\

\f3\b - Importance: 
\f5\i\b0 Measures
\f2\i0  the relative efficiency of an estimator.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls8\ilvl0\cf0 \
\ls8\ilvl0
\f3\b {\listtext	2	}94. Sufficiency:
\f2\b0 \
{\listtext	3	}- Definition: A statistical model that contains all the necessary information for estimating a population parameter\
\ls8\ilvl0
\i\b {\listtext	4	}Matched Pairs Design:
\i0\b0  Employed in educational research, matched pairs design involves pairing students with similar abilities. One group receives an intervention, while the other serves as a control.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs24 \cf0 \

\f3\b\fs26 Experimental Design:
\f2\b0  This encompasses the structured plan of an experiment designed to test hypotheses under controlled conditions. Essential elements include randomization, control groups, and replication.\

\f4\fs24 \

\f3\b\fs26 Examples:\
\
- 
\f2\i Randomised Controlled Trials (RCTs):
\i0\b0  Widely utilised in clinical research, RCTs randomly assign participants to treatment or control groups to minimise bias. For instance, they can be employed to assess the efficacy of a novel drug against a placebo.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls9\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1	}- 
\i\b Factorial Designs:
\i0\b0  Employed to investigate the simultaneous effects of multiple factors. For example, they can be utilised to examine how both dietary habits and exercise influence weight loss by creating distinct groups for each combination of dietary and exercise levels.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f4\fs24 \cf0 \

\f3\b\fs26 In both controlled studies and experimental design, meticulous planning and execution are paramount to securing valid and reliable outcomes.
\f2\b0 \
\

\f3\b Multivariate Analysis of Variance 
\f1\fs24 (\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
MANOVA):
\f0\b0 \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls10\ilvl0
\f1\b \cf0 {\listtext	95	}F-test:
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls10\ilvl0
\f1\b {\listtext	97	}Post-hoc Tests:
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls10\ilvl0
\f1\b {\listtext	99	}Non-parametric Tests:
\f0\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 8. Non-parametric and Distribution-Free Tests:\
\
- 
\fs24 Mann\'96Whitney U Test:
\f0\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls11\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	114	}- 
\f1\b Wilcoxon Signed-Rank Test:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	115	}- 
\f1\b Kruskal\'96Wallis Test:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	116	}- 
\f1\b Friedman Test:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	117	}- 
\f1\b Kolmogorov\'96Smirnov Test:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	118	}- 
\f1\b Shapiro\'96Wilk Test:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	119	}- 
\f1\b Anderson\'96Darling Test:
\f0\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 9. Correlation and Association:\
\
- 
\fs24 Covariance:
\f0\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls12\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	121	}- 
\f1\b Correlation:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	122	}- 
\f1\b Pearson Correlation:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	123	}- 
\f1\b Spearman Rank Correlation:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	124	}- 
\f1\b Kendall\'92s Tau:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	125	}- 
\f1\b Partial Correlation:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	126	}- 
\f1\b Autocorrelation:
\f0\b0 \
{\listtext	127	}- 
\f1\b Cross-correlation:
\f0\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 10. Regression Analysis (Of paramount importance):\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls13\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	129	}129. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Simple Linear Regression
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls13\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	131	}130. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Multiple Linear Regression
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls13\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	133	}131. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Polynomial Regression
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls13\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	135	}132. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Logistic Regression
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls13\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	137	}133. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Probit Regression
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls13\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	139	}134. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Poisson Regression
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls13\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	141	}135. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Ridge Regression
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls13\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	143	}136. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Lasso Regression
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls13\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	145	}137. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Elastic Net
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls13\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	147	}138\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
. Generalised Linear Models (GLM)
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls13\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	149	}139. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Assumptions of Regression
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls13\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	151	}140. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Multicollinearity
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls13\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	153	}141. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Heteroscedasticity
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls13\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	155	}142. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Homoscedasticity
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls13\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	157	}143. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Residual Analysis
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls13\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	159	}144. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
R-squared
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls13\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	161	}145. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Adjusted R-squared
\f0\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 11. Time Series Statistics\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls14\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	146	}146. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Time series data
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls14\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	148	}147. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Trend
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls14\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	150	}148. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Seasonality
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls14\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	152	}149. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Stationarity
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls14\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	154	}150. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Autoregressive (AR) model
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls14\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	156	}151. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Moving Average (MA) model
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls14\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	158	}152. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ARMA model
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls14\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	160	}153. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ARIMA model
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls14\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	162	}154. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Exponential smoothing
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls14\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	164	}155. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Decomposition of time series
\f0\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 12. Multivariate Statistics\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls15\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	156	}156. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Multivariate analysis
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls15\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	158	}157. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Principal Component Analysis (PCA)
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls15\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	160	}158. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Factor analysis
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls15\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	162	}159. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Covariance matrix
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls15\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	164	}160. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Correlation matrix
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls15\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	166	}161. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Eigenvalues
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls15\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	168	}162. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Eigenvectors
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls15\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	170	}163. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Dimensionality reduction
\f0\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 13. Statistical Learning & ML-Related Concepts\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls16\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	164	}164. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Bias\'96variance tradeoff
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls16\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	166	}165. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Overfitting
\f0\b0 \
\
\ls16\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	168	}166. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Underfitting
\f0\b0 \
\ls16\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	169	}167. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cross-validation
\f0\b0 \
\ls16\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	170	}168. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Bootstrapping
\f0\b0 \
\ls16\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	171	}169. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Resampling methods
\f0\b0 \
\ls16\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	172	}170. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Maximum likelihood estimation (MLE)
\f0\b0 \
\ls16\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	173	}171. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Bayesian inference
\f0\b0 \
\ls16\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	174	}172. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Prior distribution
\f0\b0 \
\ls16\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	175	}173. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Posterior distribution
\f0\b0 \
\ls16\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	176	}174. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
MAP estimation
\f0\b0 \
\ls16\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	177	}175. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A/B testing
\f0\b0 \
\ls16\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	178	}176. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Uplift modelling
\f0\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 14. Causal Inference & Advanced Topics\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls17\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	177	}177. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Correlation vs causation
\f0\b0 \
\ls17\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	178	}178. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Confounding variables
\f0\b0 \
\ls17\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	179	}179\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
. Randomised controlled trials
\f0\b0 \
\ls17\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	180	}180. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Observational studies
\f0\b0 \
\ls17\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	181	}181. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Propensity score matching
\f0\b0 \
\ls17\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	182	}182. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Instrumental variables
\f0\b0 \
\ls17\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	183	}183. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Difference-in-differences
\f0\b0 \
\ls17\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	184	}184. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Survival analysis
\f0\b0 \
\ls17\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	185	}185. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Hazard function
\f0\b0 \
}